---
layout: post
title: "Michael Bayless's 6th blog post"
date: 2018-10-26
---
our learning:
<br>
on monday, we started learning about data science. specifically, we learned about tables, and the types of data in tables, quantitative and categorical. one connection that I can make between our data science and internet learning is that similar to the data structure of html, tables have headers, just as html has a <head> section. on wednesday, we learned about methods. we used methods to get data out of the tables, and we learned the difference between methods and functions, which is that methods are nothing without a object to act upon, and functions have values without focuses, which I suppose means that functions are just another type of data. one connection that I can make between functions having values and the idea that computation and programming are related to mathematics is that in my algebra 2 class, we recently worked on using operations on functions, eg. f(x) = 2x +2, g(x) = 3x-3, f(x) + g(x) = 5x-1. On thursday, we looked at a program that turned a google spreadsheet and converted it to a pyret table. we also learned about the functions pie-chart() and bar-chart(). on friday, we went over making connections for our blog posts, and then we just worked on our blog posts. on friday, I also heard that in your blog post you could explain the difference between (defining a function/a contract), and calling that function, so here goes nothing. defining a function is telling the computer what to do when you call the function. a contract is the outline for what you need to include with a function in order for it to call the function. calling the function is actually telling the computer to take the values you gave it, and do what you told it to do when you defined the function. another thing I heard was that we were going to start learning about how to make functions in pyret next week, but I already learned how to make functions, so I hope that there will be something challenging for me to do. anyway, one connection I can make between the structure of defining functions in pyret and html would be that when defining functions in pyret, you have to point out where the definition starts(fun) and stops(end) , just like how in html you have to say where a tag starts <> and ends </>.

my learning:
This week, there wasn't really much to do. Most of class was dedicated to introducing and learning about tables and data science. One thing I did well this week was that I payed attention to everything that was being taught this week, although that really doesn't stand out much, because I do that just about every week. One area that I could improve in would probably be doing my homework. for the printed assignment we recieved, I had to do it in class because I forgot to do it, and with my blog post, I didn't bother working on it until the last minute, so I'm about 75% sure this is late. Another area in which I could improve is that I'm not the best at making connections. there isn't really much I can elaborate on about this, but coming up with connections doesn't come to me as naturally as other things, and I'm not sure if I'm doing it right or if I understand the purpose of making connections.


<!-- This week marks the end of the first third of the Fall semester. Use this week's learning blog to tell a story about the semester up to this point. Make connections between your studies in mathematics and computer science. Make connections between different concepts in computing. 
This is the first reflection assignment that qualifies for professional level. In this week's reflection you can earn professional by synthesizing a significant amount of our concepts and activities up to this point in the semester. Connections go beyond summaries to form concepts from activities and learning objectives. Remember that the goal of our course is to engage with "Principles," which means the underlying concepts that connect computing phenomena. Computation is first and foremost a branch of mathematics, and the expressions we build to solve problems are mathematical structures.
Use the core vocabulary of our course to connect concepts between mathematics and computer science courses and to express the underlying concepts that connect computing phenomena.
-->
